Guilherme Cartier: Good afternoon.
John Mertic: Excuse me.
John Mertic: So this has been the inaugural run of having the TAC agendas built from GitHub issues.
John Mertic: This looks like it might have worked relative that physically worked well. I'm curious on the practical of how this comes together, but one step at a time.
John Mertic: Hey everyone, I'm just doing some roll call in the background here as people are coming in.
John Mertic: I'll read the agenda, it's up in the GitHub issues. I don't know if everyone saw it was sent via email. This is our first go round of trying
John Mertic: Trying to do the agenda via that so
John Mertic: We'll see how that goes. And if people like that or not.
Vincent Terrone: Hi this is Benny
John Mertic: Benny, how are you
Deborah Carbo: Are you
Vincent Terrone: Good.
Joe Bostian: Joseph
Hey,
Vincent Terrone: I'm getting a reverb.
Vincent Terrone: Know, it seemed, stop.
John Mertic: Okay, can you hear it for me or
John Mertic: Might have been somebody over there. My econ
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, it was myself and other people
Okay.
John Mertic: Just making sure it wasn't on my end.
Bob Dahlberg: Tiara with that shirt.
Guilherme Cartier: Debbie, you're on mute.
Deborah Carbo: Thank you for notifying me
Deborah Carbo: Half the time I talked
Deborah Carbo: I wore this shirt, especially for the speeding.
John Mertic: Fantastic.
John Mertic: Way to come themed
John Mertic: I dropped in the the chat a link to the agenda.
John Mertic: I'm getting a little bit of that feedback. Now, as well.
John Mertic: Seems to be better.
John Mertic: More people popping in here. I'll give it a few moments.
Len Santalucia: Reporting for duty.
John Mertic: Thank you, sir.
John Mertic: All right, I think.
John Mertic: I'm
John Mertic: I am well
John Mertic: I am well I'm hoping I'm hoping we're done with this nice weather snow rotation, we've had here in Ohio. These last
Peter Fandel: Couple weeks. Oh boy.
Len Santalucia: Yeah.
John Mertic: I think we're I think we're kind of past that. So that's good.
Len Santalucia: Enough is enough.
John Mertic: You ain't kidding.
Len Santalucia: Hey gang, how are you out there. I see all your smiling faces.
John Mertic: Alright, I think we're settling down here and maybe get started I'm just going through upgrade mechanic. Okay, cool. It's just going through to make sure I have everyone accounted for that is here and
John Mertic: He actually a warm day. It looks like. That's good. All right.
John Mertic: I think Phil is out of office.
John Mertic: And Mike. I don't know if Mark post was planning. Join Today I create an acre.
Mike Friesenegger: He is working on trying to get
Mike Friesenegger: In oh
Mike Friesenegger: Um, he's having client issue. So I the same problem I had this morning I'll help them with getting
Mike Friesenegger: Getting connected
John Mertic: Okay, cool, cool. Thank you. Apologies for a little bit of
John Mertic: Fun Party.
John Mertic: Zoom clients. These days, and it also doesn't help. I think this might be the first meeting we require everyone to have a zoom login so
John Mertic: That might also be a part of what's going on there.
So,
All right.
John Mertic: Let's go ahead and get started. I think we're gonna have a quorum today, which is excellent. Um, I'm going to put back in the chat here the agenda for today. So
John Mertic: We tried something new here of using GitHub issues against the TAC repo.
John Mertic: To build out the agenda.
John Mertic: So the idea here is that if you end up having anything for the agenda if you just create an issue or if you have an issue there and you just tag it
John Mertic: meeting agenda.
John Mertic: There's a script using
John Mertic: GitHub actions that goes and builds the agenda.
John Mertic: The day before
John Mertic: With all of those things ready to go.
John Mertic: So I figured we'd give this a try.
John Mertic: This is something that the Node JS community lives and dies.
John Mertic: By they love this thing.
John Mertic: Mostly because they hate having to do operational work. So this is a great start for them. So I figured I'd try this for here and see how it goes.
John Mertic: Let me know if this is a good methodology for doing this or not.
Peter Fandel: And so forth.
John Mertic: So agenda today. There's actually quite a few items on the agenda.
John Mertic: You know, not only going through some of the project updates.
John Mertic: We have a new project proposal.
John Mertic: Which is here to be discussed.
John Mertic: There's an issue here around discussing the concept of attack establishing a cig working group programs.
John Mertic: We have items on here for the atoms plugin up for graduation. And I think there was a comment on that issue from john R, which may want to take a look at tears decompress
John Mertic: Which I don't know if we have any updates on that one.
John Mertic: Zeros up for incubation renew all and then I guess the last one is the gift of actions, which I guess I sort of talked about already.
John Mertic: Anything were missing from today's
John Mertic: agenda that anyone seeing
John Mertic: Okay, good.
John Mertic: Let's go ahead and dig into things, then I'm
John Mertic: On the project update side. I don't believe we have anybody from a D on the call.
John Mertic: Let's see. I'll go through my list here because we have so many these days. It's hard to keep track
John Mertic: Here, um, we have Amadeus. I think we have the Joe's on here from Amadeus. Any updates on that.
Joe Bostian: We, we met a couple times our steering committee in are looking at, including some additional
Joe Bostian: Examples on these happened to be based around container use but
Joe Bostian: I have gotten some people asking some questions about
Joe Bostian: Some natively ported stuff as well. But that's not quite ready to
Joe Bostian: Consider so
Joe Bostian: Just I'm
Joe Bostian: Adding content.
Joe Bostian: Adding content to the library of how tos and examples that were, you know, trying to support
John Mertic: Any questions from anybody on that.
John Mertic: Alright, um, I'll get well. Maybe we'll talk about the
John Mertic: Atom one real quick and
John Mertic: You know, since the Adam was up for discussion. So
John Mertic: I'll put a link in the chat here in case you don't see it, Issue one zero for
John Mertic: Basically, it looks like john had responded to the question there around sort of with the current status of the project.
John Mertic: I think he had a little bit a question on the trademark pieces and I can, I can follow up with him. Um, I think he sounds like he's at a place where he's moved on from this project and he you know doesn't really as much as have the time, everything to dedicate day to day and indicated
John Mertic: If somebody wants to take it over. It's fine, or otherwise we're going to embarrass Mr emeritus status likely make sense. Um,
John Mertic: I don't know if anybody sees those comments and anybody has thoughts on this or anybody who has interest in taking this project over to that's also an option.
John Mertic: I'm hoping somebody talking on mute about this. I'm just joking. Um,
John Mertic: I guess for voting members of the tack is since there's nobody really coming forward here is the interest of looking to do about to move this to America status is that with the tech voting members would be interested in doing.
John Mertic: Or do you all want to discuss it offline first and then
John Mertic: Come back and look at this next month.
Enyu Wang: Hey john. This is any showy sort of a broadcast a message to a wider team wider team, you know, in case someone is interested
John Mertic: I think that makes a ton of sense. Yeah, it makes a ton of sense he had just tried to see where everyone's heads at, um, yes. I mean, maybe I'll make a note out to john to see if he wouldn't mind just dropping a note on the email list.
John Mertic: That if he's looking for new maintainer. And if he doesn't see a new maintainer then he'll recommend it to move to America status is that is that sort of sound like what you were thinking in you.
Enyu Wang: Yes.
Bob Dahlberg: If it goes to America status can come back as an act you know later.
John Mertic: Yeah, I can always come back.
John Mertic: It just, we just need to qualify
John Mertic: You know, with the criteria for the given stage it's looking to come into yeah
Bob Dahlberg: Because I can see that there's Rex and Assembler in there and you know I can proceed those coming you know as as we develop other projects like if we work on the Education Project
Bob Dahlberg: You know this, these could be important.
Bob Dahlberg: This can be some of these topics or packages in there could become important to us.
Enyu Wang: Okay, each project will have nine lives.
Yeah.
John Mertic: Well,
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah mainframe was here, you know, we know nothing dies.
John Mertic: Alright well. Very good. Thank you for that feedback I will comment on that issue for that to be the next step there.
John Mertic: A going forward on the list fail long
Mike Friesenegger: Okay. Hey everybody, this is my treason Egger
Mike Friesenegger: On since the last tech meeting. We've had a couple of great failing meetings are making a lot of great progress and getting the CIC D infrastructure up and running and we're working closely with the Linux Foundation team.
Mike Friesenegger: And and and i'm going to give a shout out to my come infinity.
Mike Friesenegger: Who has created three VM guests on one of their L pars and and and Vinny
Mike Friesenegger: Has done
Mike Friesenegger: An amazing job and and on today's call earlier this morning he were he's just about ready to open up access to the Ci, Ci CD team of a long to see if we can't get that connected up to GitHub actions and start doing some CI CD tests.
Mike Friesenegger: On in addition to the CIC D side of the house Vinny has been busy creating second level VM Z VM, seven. One second level for a long developers.
Mike Friesenegger: And so there are, there is a way for people that want to contribute to the fan long project to be able to request access to a second level VM. They'll have meant access to it.
Mike Friesenegger: And things like that they'll be able to 30 to 70 vias Zoe, there'll be able to SSH to the Linux instance that runs Python Z VM SDK. That's the, that's the project itself.
Mike Friesenegger: So that is about ready to be turned on for a couple of developers to connect up and see how the infrastructure works. So I'm so great progress on that and again
Mike Friesenegger: Thank you to Viacom infinity also thank you to velocity software for offering up some of their knowledge and expertise and products to help in in duplicating the second level VM environment.
Mike Friesenegger: One last thing next week.
Mike Friesenegger: I'll take the 30 minute call or the next call next week in two weeks. I'll take the 30 minute call and I'll demonstrate Python SDK in action.
Mike Friesenegger: On my LPR within Susa that I use for my testing purposes. So people that are part of a long that have maybe never seen this thing and action. They'll get to see a very simple demonstration of how
Mike Friesenegger: How Fei long and the Python Z VM SDK project helps in automating infrastructures service on the VM.
Mike Friesenegger: And that's it.
John Mertic: Cool. Thank you. Any questions for anyone.
Len Santalucia: Good job, Mike on your project. Thank you.
Len Santalucia: Thanks. Lynn.
John Mertic: And exciting to see, you know, one project leveraging the other project here to we're already seeing some of those interconnections with using using Zoho for your provision or end
Mike Friesenegger: Absolutely. Thank you.
John Mertic: Cool. I'm moving forward here. I don't think I don't think we have anybody from poly separately on the line.
John Mertic: So we can move forward. They're terrorists decompress. I don't think we have anybody from them in line and they're still the open issue on that one around the marital status.
John Mertic: And if we want to just sort of keep that as an open issue until we hear more from clauses that that sound good to the voting TASC the voting TAC members.
Len Santalucia: Make sense. Okay.
John Mertic: Um, I think, Karen is here and I will also note here in that this project is sort of had hit. It's one year mark so it's ready to look at sort of an incubation renewal as well but hearing you have to provide an update first
Hiren Shah: Yeah, so
Hiren Shah: Last two meetings. We have a few
Hiren Shah: Tech meeting on zero
Hiren Shah: Last meeting was kind of
Hiren Shah: Something went wrong on my calendar so
Hiren Shah: Some people they're joining it 11. So in actual meeting was at two. So we kind of resolve it at this point. So hopefully next meeting, we will have people joining in.
Hiren Shah: The current
Hiren Shah: challenges we have with this project is we are not getting enough participation right though we have
Hiren Shah: workflows from the USA map posted on this community.
Hiren Shah: We are trying to recruit additional customers vendors and we don't have
Hiren Shah: Yet additional participation in in in this community besides the initial participants like IBM and one of their customer
Peter Fandel: So that's what we are trying to do like to
Leverage
Hiren Shah: Additional bad like education's any conferences virtual now where we talk about zero SMS we're promoting zero. So that's what we're doing to promote it.
Hiren Shah: getting traction is a challenge right now.
Sean Grady: One of the things that I'm a bit curious about
Sean Grady: Is I've seen the Zorro repositories, but
Sean Grady: Is there a website that indexes them because it kind of seems like the next logical step that you
Sean Grady: Have them but you'd want to
Sean Grady: tag them in some way that people
Sean Grady: Search for the ones
They want
Hiren Shah: So I'm open mainframe.
Hiren Shah: Project to has a pointer bizarro we are looking for additional pointers, like I'm trying to still understand where you want to have that
Hiren Shah: Tagging or index.
Sean Grady: Well, I guess what I mean it's like
Sean Grady: MPM, for example, is a great package manager and repository. But part of the way that people find out about the things on and PM, is that
Sean Grady: They have a website that helps you enter in a search query and filter the list and find out what you want. So do we have a sort of tagging, and indexing system to categorize the workflows, because I saw that
Len Santalucia: on GitHub there in particular folders, which
Sean Grady: Is a categorization, but I don't know if people need to find that repo before they can dig in. Or if there's some other website where they can just type in a search query.
Hiren Shah: That's a good comment.
Hiren Shah: So if, if we can posted the link to this workflows from our IBM community.
Hiren Shah: Would that be the place like we have zero SMS community and people who want to learn more about zero SMS, we go that and and we have a link dissolve. Oh, but not
Hiren Shah: The same way that individual workflows are categories of work frozen not tagged on our website. So there's something. Additionally, we can do
Hiren Shah: Just rather than having pointed to the Zoho community maybe better indexed listing in our website so they can find it easily.
John Mertic: Yeah, I think, I think if I'm kind of parsing what I think you're saying, Sean, and correct me if I'm wrong is almost sort of a way that you could
John Mertic: Be able to even better look through the repository and understand, you know, hey, this is the job that solves this problem or this is a job in sort of this category or something like that.
Peter Fandel: Just to make
John Mertic: The searching a bit more easier.
John Mertic: For people
Sean Grady: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Because it's it's one thing to have useful workflows and it's another thing for people to be aware that they exist. And so I feel like a good front end might go a long way to getting more buy in.
John Mertic: Yeah, is there.
John Mertic: Is there any sort of standard
John Mertic: Hearing like taxonomy or tagging that can be done on the XML documents themselves like in the comments. I don't know if there's any sort of the methodology built into the standard or not.
John Mertic: Worth that needs to be somewhere separate
Oh,
Hiren Shah: Even if it is in the XML file right we have a taxonomy of what product.
Hiren Shah: Is basically providing that workflows, or what it does kind of description in the XML but
Hiren Shah: I'm not sure how you can get inside the XML to to expose the data, you may have to have good comments on on repository itself did that talks about that that highlights what this particular XML will do. Right.
John Mertic: Yeah i mean i think i think i've seen and maybe fraud. I don't know if maybe this. It sounds like you're in might be able to use some some help in this space here.
John Mertic: Of how to do that. Like I've, I think what I feel like what you're kind of suggesting here is, you know, could there you know either be like a one page that lists all of these that you can just search through the page and then link or even within the XML.
John Mertic: Like somewhere up in like the comments are headers, there's
John Mertic: Like a standard taxonomy to help people be able to just search that way. So like title. When it does, maybe some tagging or something like that.
Sean Grady: Yeah, I mean that that's the, the problem is that I don't actually know what technologies that can accomplish this, but
Sean Grady: The thing that I'm visualizing and my mind is something more like when you go to search for something on Amazon, you check a lot of boxes to filter what you want and then that would
Sean Grady: Potentially help here too.
John Mertic: Yeah okay that sounds like maybe something to kind of take with here and offline or maybe into the next meeting and kind of chew through that's an opportunity
Hiren Shah: Right. Yeah, I can. I can work. I can send you know to Sean and see if he has any ideas like
Hiren Shah: Is it just index list.
Hiren Shah: And have links to individual repository item from that list, and that list can be published on our one stop hub for the USA map. And that way if somebody searching, they will be able to find that tax they somebody searching for provisioning kicks. For example, right, and then they will
Hiren Shah: Be able to find a turnover website that would take them to the link into the repository where this actual workflow exist.
Sean Grady: Yeah, I mean, I'd be curious if if anyone on the call has experience in repositories or indexers in this way because there might be something off the shelf that can be used. But personally, I've not. It's just a user experience thing that occurred to me.
Hiren Shah: Okay, thank you.
John Mertic: Um, I actually, there's probably, probably could even have through there might even be something that's relatively GitHub, native to there might be able to use, but
John Mertic: Yeah, maybe that might be a good actually dig into offline.
Hiren Shah: Do we have is such a issue with either repository where they have some modules or
Hiren Shah: Are programs.
Hiren Shah: Those programs listed in the repository and how they they would like MPM is is one example I can dig into that and see how they are indexing into NPR modules, but
Hiren Shah: Any other example we have in a wimpy
John Mertic: And I don't think so, because I think this is sort of like a a different problem than some of the other projects have but I'll pause there and see if others if if that's something others would agree with or not.
Hiren Shah: Like when when we were talking about like atom. For example, in the head. Couple of utilities or racks.
Hiren Shah: How they are indexing into those, for example, right. I know we are we are promoting that project, but
Hiren Shah: Like similar project where they have some utilities modules that this particular repository provides and how one would index into it.
Yeah.
Okay.
John Mertic: Any other questions on this project.
Hiren Shah: So what needs to be done i'm john to continue home for renewing for the year. What are the, what is the process that we have to follow.
John Mertic: So basically the tack just has to have a vote to indicate that it's willing to renew another year, and I believe we have a quorum of tack members. So I don't know if that's something of interest for the tech to pursue today or if they wanted to take it offline.
Len Santalucia: John yes lead
Len Santalucia: I had a comment to make to the group.
Len Santalucia: For consideration on here. It's project here Zahra
Len Santalucia: Here and I have been
Len Santalucia: Thinking about this to my cell for a while now and I was wondering what you would think about this.
Len Santalucia: You know what you mentioned when you're first spoke here about how getting interest is been a challenge, right.
Len Santalucia: So what I was trying to do is not the technical part of it. We're just trying to figure out what the people side of this issue might be and I got thinking that maybe what we could do, and this is just an idea for you and everybody else. What if we
Len Santalucia: Helped
Len Santalucia: The project by bringing it under the wing of one of the other projects that are closely related to this project to help give it a boost and more exposure and then reestablish it back as a separate project with it made sense when there seemed to be a good enough following
Len Santalucia: Would maybe, you know, the one that made sense to me to try to do that with
Len Santalucia: Because it's somewhat related is the Zoe project.
Len Santalucia: And, you know, it has the API's and it has the geo SMS and related in that type of thing.
Len Santalucia: And
Len Santalucia: After it was kind of taken under that wing
Len Santalucia: Then maybe it might blossom later and move it into a separate
Len Santalucia: Back into a separate project went to head more lakes, what does everybody think about that you to hire night. This is your baby, you know, trying to see how maybe an ideas might like this, like this might help.
Len Santalucia: And I'll be quiet for comments.
Len Santalucia: Anybody have comments.
Hiren Shah: I would think about it then home if
Hiren Shah: Putting it under Zoe would get
Hiren Shah: Further interest buying because
Hiren Shah: Some of the stuff. Zoe is supporting right it's more from development activity perspective with it to meet smart targeted to application developer type of persona versus these workflows that we are talking about maybe more targeted for
Peter Fandel: Know coming
Sean Grady: Um, so my
Peter Fandel: Question is, what would
Sean Grady: It being under so he's wing Intel because I have concerns that it could actually
Sean Grady: backfire. With regards to that. So he
Sean Grady: has a history of being in the past. A Morpheus that we've been working to correct and that
Sean Grady: It might get more or less lost in Zoe because it had been trouble to explain what so he was in the past, it seems like we might actually get better mileage by
Sean Grady: Having them closely linked in terms of marketing, but for it to actually be part of this le project, it might actually get lost with him. So he if you know what I mean.
Bob Dahlberg: Sean, I agree with that, you know, and we want to make sure that we don't become these only project instead of the open mainframe.
Exactly.
Peter Fandel: It's
Peter Fandel: Just because Zoe has more a more active community is by itself, certainly not a reason to lose something into it. Yeah.
Bob Dahlberg: There's no question that's always going to enable a lot of a lot of projects here.
Bob Dahlberg: So I think a lot of projects are going to be tied to it, but for Zoe to eat him up. I think it like you say it loses focus
Sujay Solomon: I would do, I mean,
Len Santalucia: Would you pick another project, other than Zoe. It's not necessary. I just picked Zoe. I'm more are more interested in helping zero continue and putting it underneath. Somebody wing so it gets some
Len Santalucia: Momentum somehow, some way because seems like
Len Santalucia: It's challenged. I mean,
Sean Grady: This, this
Matt Hogstrom: Instead of similarity
Matt Hogstrom: Instead of quitting it with another project land, I would suggest that zeros overall purpose and mission is around automation and provisioning
Matt Hogstrom: So perhaps rather than moving it with another group perhaps coupling some additional technology besides us. And if there's already been some work done to start add answerable automation in and couple that and blend that in the zeal SMS, which I think would make it
Matt Hogstrom: A far more enticing project than just workflows, because then it's focusing on its core mission, which is automation, not a technology.
Sujay Solomon: And I play automation right so systems ad automation being sort of the, the, the high level scope of that project.
Sujay Solomon: And the technology that would be encompassed
Sujay Solomon: With that being the goal could be expanded beyond the iOS enough workflows.
Matt Hogstrom: Right, then it could be include things like Python and racks and answerable and CEOs and math. And then all of a sudden you have a blend of tools that enable a tremendous amount
Matt Hogstrom: Of provisioning and automation and you draw from a much broader pool of interested people that would want to participate.
Bob Dahlberg: I really like that concept.
Bob Dahlberg: I think
Bob Dahlberg: That the mainframe is EOS but it's it's type technology which is more enterprise oriented. So we've got two definitions there. I think of mainframe, but I like where you're going with that man it was
Len Santalucia: I think that's a very good idea. Matt suggested
Len Santalucia: It's actually a lot better when I said I really think that's very good idea.
Len Santalucia: How would we, how would we do that. So another
Sean Grady: Another point that I'd like to make here is
Sean Grady: Is part of the reason why
Sean Grady: Why there's challenges here just a matter of awareness in terms of, like, okay, so we have a lot of different parties invested in Zoe and
Sean Grady: Rather than putting it in Zoe, per se, to the people who are working on. So we know what sorrow is I think actually having more of the community, the people who don't attend this call.
Sean Grady: Be made aware of what the other projects in the LM P do is is probably the way to get more resources here.
Hiren Shah: Yeah, well,
Len Santalucia: John you did that right
Len Santalucia: Um,
John Mertic: So we've actually started down this path, a little bit. So there was that webinar a few weeks ago and I think what that's actually one of the biggest pieces of feedback both me and I and others heard from that was, it was
John Mertic: Really good for people who are sort of siloed in their own project to see what
John Mertic: Else is going on. And I think there is some immediate
John Mertic: Things that people saw us cross cross pollination. I think Joe Winchester specifically raised that I think there was others as well.
John Mertic: So I think there's some pieces along that way. But I like I I definitely think that probably more and more of that starts to get some of that cross pollination and
John Mertic: I think the other undertone, which I didn't hear this word said, but I feel probably some people are probably thinking this in the back of their heads is a bit of mentoring as well.
John Mertic: You know, because I think some of you have been through the depths of how you build one of these projects. I mean, we've we we have LF experience on structure and pieces like this, you sort of understand more to the intricacies of the communities and and some of that might be useful to
Sujay Solomon: And and in terms of a desire to, you know, maybe use Zoe's outreach right now.
Sujay Solomon: A lot of Zoe does help with automation while so Zoe itself does not provide automation provides you the interfaces that can be used for automation. So if
Sujay Solomon: If this project uses Zoe for implementing some automation sample then scripts and so on, that could be sort of the tie in and you'd be able to say that's our own leverage is Zoe, and they're, they're kind of connected in that way and and message together. Yeah.
Hiren Shah: Yeah, the one that when I say we have a challenges.
Hiren Shah: For other contributor is mostly like because of this the way the main theme shops on the US, they have their automation it automation right but they want to publicize it. They have they're happy with the way they are doing things in their shop. They don't want to like
Hiren Shah: Make know how
Hiren Shah: How they have done things right.
Hiren Shah: So that's another challenge from at least from the system programming perspective, maybe, maybe things are changing on application side but
Hiren Shah: So, so we, I'm happy to
Hiren Shah: Get some ideas of how we could educate our SIS proxy team on a customer side you're comfortable doing more collaboration.
Matt Hogstrom: And I think
Matt Hogstrom: From a messaging standpoint, I would, I would very clearly separate runtime automation, which is what you're alluding to. That's where you typically at things like system automation.
Matt Hogstrom: Option vs. You know, broad comes
Hiren Shah: Not including
Matt Hogstrom: But you're but you're more on the you want to enable developers to be able to have provisioning and automation in order to improve their velocity
Matt Hogstrom: And that I think is really the space that you're at. And that's largely Greenfield that doesn't really exist apart from old systems programmers.
Matt Hogstrom: Setting up and provisioning things for the developers. And so I i think it's a very different space where I think you would attract a very interesting crowd.
John Mertic: So, so this is great conversation. I don't mean to put a pin to this. I'm with it. Would it be okay that folks that are interested, I think hearing your next TASC meeting is a week from today.
John Mertic: Actually, I think, an hour after this meeting. So PM Eastern
John Mertic: Would you all who's have interest in kind of helping him with that maybe transition side of the conversation over to their. Does that, does that makes I hate to put a pin to this. We have a lot of other things that I want to make sure people have time for it.
Hiren Shah: Would be that
John Mertic: Okay. And then in terms of the incubation renewal. Let's it does for the voting tech members, is it makes sense to consider that next.
Month.
Len Santalucia: Okay.
John Mertic: Alright, cool. Alright. Sorry to pin that conversation a bit. We have a
Hiren Shah: Know, this was good. Thanks for everybody who is giving me
Hiren Shah: That ideas. So I will continue resume this discussion next week.
John Mertic: Absolutely. This is a great discussion. Thank you.
John Mertic: One. Let's touch on two more projects before we three here, Zoe, do we want to do a quick update on that.
Sean Grady: Looks like both.
Sean Grady: Myself and CJ are here so I can cover a little bit of what I've been doing first which is that we've been moving towards doing more of a joint
Sean Grady: Program incremental development. And so in the recent one that was started some of our goals included access. So that is based on the mediation layer working in combination with CLS IMF and also
Sean Grady: Key rings in Saf and
Sean Grady: There were some other things in the mix. But those two I highlight because we are nearly if not totally complete as I speak with those two. So I think the, I think that we're off to a good start with the program increment.
Sean Grady: Concept that we're doing. And so we and there's been a lot of
Sean Grady: talk lately about how to fire their align the different
Sean Grady: Groups, so that they can plan and work together.
John Mertic: Any other updates from others on the phone.
Sujay Solomon: And this one. One thing I'll add is we did add a new squad Zoe Explorer is a new squad in Zoe focused on a VS Code extension which is also starting to explore other technologies like Eclipse.
Sujay Solomon: Eclipse Taya and Shane and so on, but
Sujay Solomon: We've been trying to do that for for a little while because that that piece had grown beyond incubation within Zoe and had a lot of popularity, so
Sujay Solomon: We've finally got her gotten around establishing a separate squad for them and they will be on their way operating independently starting next week.
John Mertic: Here.
John Mertic: Alright, any questions on Zoe.
John Mertic: All right. Um mentorship, Bob. I don't know if you have any quick updates there. And I know we're kind of getting close to the end. So I'm gonna make sure we save some time for the project proposal here.
John Mertic: Did you maybe walk away.
Bob Dahlberg: No, I'm sorry. I was talking on mute.
Bob Dahlberg: We've got the 11 projects underway. We've got one who submitted their project plan yesterday, which will enable them to release their first step and
Bob Dahlberg: I'm going to reach out to the rest of them. I've also been playing with a template for the GitHub, so we can organize and allow the mentees and mentors know what's expected of them.
Bob Dahlberg: So I'll be updating that in the next next week in hopefully put something on the books to meet with everybody to
Len Santalucia: Remind them that their
Bob Dahlberg: project plans are doing for the first step and
John Mertic: Says, Well, thank you. Um, and I don't think we have anybody. Do we have anybody from the Cabal project on the line.
John Mertic: From a programming language or Programming course.
Len Santalucia: Well, Cameron was supposed to be here, but he didn't make it for so
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: We'll skip past that one.
John Mertic: Um, and I
Len Santalucia: Did you want to mention some of the work going on with that behind the scenes to the team here briefly.
John Mertic: Uh, yeah, for my understanding, there's been
John Mertic: The programming course itself has been a huge hit. I think there's somewhere in the neighborhood of
John Mertic: 1400 stars tons of forks lots of contributions and things going back. So I think that team has just really been trying to keep up with the fire hose coming at them.
John Mertic: In addition, there's been some rumblings around
John Mertic: A project kind of
John Mertic: And this say
John Mertic: I think might be a little bit more focused on a working group or special interest group format versus a project around cobalt in general.
John Mertic: And I think there's a little bit of definition working to come there, but I know camp ca is helping lead some of that.
Len Santalucia: And maybe there's some participation for micro focus and
John Mertic: Other organizations as well. So that's, that's something working in the background there. And I think there's an open issue there around the possibility of
John Mertic: Starting working groups and special interest groups to sort of compliment the projects. So maybe we can kind of direct some more conversation around that as a concept over there, if that makes sense.
Len Santalucia: Educate
Bob Dahlberg: Project that one.
Len Santalucia: What
Bob Dahlberg: Is this, is this in reference to the educate
Project
Bob Dahlberg: That we've been talking about. There's been some
Bob Dahlberg: Communication back and forth about, you know, not only cobalt courses, but things in other technologies within the mainframe and CEOs and
John Mertic: That is, that's a separate project, which actually
John Mertic: They're going to propose.
John Mertic: Today here if
John Mertic: Okay, we're going to try to try to blaze through this real quick. I apologize for running everyone so quickly. Here we have a lot to cover.
Len Santalucia: Um, let me just say a couple words and jam real quick about about for everybody say
Len Santalucia: Everybody else or ship hopefully knows that Cameron say is teaching cobalt at East Carolina University as he used to at North Carolina University for many years and one thing led to another would come, especially after all this press in and around co ball.
Len Santalucia: Everybody saying the false things misleading things about it, as we all know.
Len Santalucia: And then we started saying, you know, maybe this is a time to
Len Santalucia: Construct or create a project or as john is calling it right now work group in and around Cole ball.
Len Santalucia: Here in the open mainframe project.
Len Santalucia: We had 1600 people post their
Len Santalucia: Availability as coal ball programmers on our website here. And then along came others about PR one assembler and Rex.
Len Santalucia: And we said, Okay, well Kobo kind of got this whole conversation started when some of those governors made erroneous comments.
Len Santalucia: And maybe we could call it heritage language, not not legacy but heritage Language Project or something along those lines. And that's how this conversation came about and
Deborah Carbo: It could be
Len Santalucia: A pretty popular thing it's using those words happened recently in the trade press
Len Santalucia: And media.
Len Santalucia: In and around this topic for us as well as open mainframe project, project. So that's, that's how it kind of
Len Santalucia: Was born and how we get to here we are today we're discussing this Cameron's willing to be actually the leader of it.
Len Santalucia: Because he believes in it so much and you couldn't ask for a better cheerleader than him around this topic. I'll tell you that. He's just full of vim and vigor and so passionate about this.
Len Santalucia: You don't want to get his way. So that's, that's how we got to this point of the conversation. Folks, this just want to make sure I mentioned it here today.
Len Santalucia: To kind of start the conversation we can continue afterwards because I know we've got other stuff to cover. Yeah.
Matt Hogstrom: I just gonna ask a quick question on that when
Matt Hogstrom: I was actually one of the
Matt Hogstrom: Probably many people that submitted my name to
Matt Hogstrom: The state of New Jersey and six weeks later I got a thanks but we don't need any help.
Response, which is a little odd, but
Matt Hogstrom: One of the things that I think there's, it's good to have this focus on coal ball and programming languages, but it seems to me that one of the areas that we're really missing any kind of real discipline on is the reality of systems management systems programming.
Matt Hogstrom: You know, because, you know, for instance, maybe it wasn't even a cobalt program problem. It was more of a the system was choking because they weren't able to dispatch networking requests efficiently across the environment. So it's an
Matt Hogstrom: Overload Maggie, the
Len Santalucia: Problem at the states was all their front end servers which were feeding into and connected into the mainframe, the mainframe was humming away.
Len Santalucia: Right, so
Matt Hogstrom: So that was my point that
Matt Hogstrom: That there's a it's focusing on the languages, I think, is is good, but there's a whole systems administration systems management discipline that may be another candidate for
Deborah Carbo: Looking at in terms of education.
Matt Hogstrom: And I understand it was the front end servers outside of the mainframe, but we've kind of taken a knee jerk reaction. And now we're
Matt Hogstrom: Focusing on languages. When the discipline that's
Matt Hogstrom: Probably disappearing faster than
Matt Hogstrom: Any of our
Matt Hogstrom: systems programming.
Deborah Carbo: And management discipline.
Meredith stowell: Hey Matt. It's Meredith. I also want to call out that
Meredith stowell: The some of the things that we are doing around cobalt and you know through the mainframe project or not a result of
Meredith stowell: What occurred here, but we're actually in the works for
Meredith stowell: Quite some time.
Matt Hogstrom: I still might my statement still stands, focusing on languages and systems administration is solving part of the problem. But ignoring a really huge gap was looming.
Sujay Solomon: Well, there's a new
Sujay Solomon: Project, because all the
Len Santalucia: Languages kind of fall under systems programming anyway.
Meredith stowell: I think it's a great segue john into the
John Mertic: Yes. Yes, and I
Bob Dahlberg: Guess there's been a lot of conversation in the background going on this.
Bob Dahlberg: And I think, you know, and what Matt says is right on, and the group that's been participating has been hitting and just that subject.
John Mertic: Okay, so, so I this is i love the amount of conversation here. I feel horrible for the group here that is brought forward to proposal, I know we only have 812 minutes left. Deb, and you vet and all is that
John Mertic: Sufficient or
Deborah Carbo: Well, it's dead. Can I even heard in my article
Deborah Carbo: You are audible fabulous. So on behalf of me that night. We can segue into this. That would be awesome because
Deborah Carbo: You guys set us up to
Deborah Carbo: Thank you.
Len Santalucia: That needs to be made available to everyone.
Deborah Carbo: So I'm not able to share. I hope I table I ND I have a way that I can solve that problem for
You
John Mertic: Try now.
Deborah Carbo: Disabled unfortunately
John Mertic: Oh yeah. Did you as a co host normally that makes it work, you're under Deb.
John Mertic: Right.
John Mertic: Yeah. Oh, wait a minute. I see.
John Mertic: I see a second Deborah's that's probably what
Len Santalucia: Here's
John Mertic: The other permission.
Deborah Carbo: I see it now I'm looking to the PowerPoint. All right.
Deborah Carbo: I don't know what you are seeing her rights screen at the moment.
John Mertic: Looks like a piece of US letter paper.
Deborah Carbo: Wow. Let's see if I can run a slideshow or yeah
And it's not
John Mertic: It's not, I just still see the white screen for it, you know.
Ingo Adlung: You're, you're on a Mac, you have to four permissions you have to allow for for zoom to record your, your screen.
Deborah Carbo: Oh, that is the problem. Where do
Deborah Carbo: You want me to share mine.
I've got them.
Deborah Carbo: At the righty, that
Deborah Carbo: There's only one of me.
Yvette LaMar: That I gave you co Host Okay.
Yvette LaMar: I guess Debbie, Doc.
Len Santalucia: Say,
Deborah Carbo: Okay, I'm doing it. I
Thought
Deborah Carbo: All right.
Yvette LaMar: We get on here. And, like, sure.
Yvette LaMar: And
Deborah Carbo: So while she's refreshing. I'll kind of set us up. So we're here to propose a project or community collaboration.
Deborah Carbo: Essentially ease the very thing that was just mentioned access to me for an education for all job roles that are required in the marketplace.
Deborah Carbo: And one of the things that we hear and see. And certainly, you know, I've been in the mainframe space for 25 years currently with Broadcom and
Deborah Carbo: In partnership with global technology services and the IBM Systems organization event and myself are presenting Broadcom with a few others what we're looking to do is to essentially
Deborah Carbo: Invite the community to participate in an asset building environment or solution that can be shared.
Deborah Carbo: And made available to anybody who wants to learn the mainframe. There are tons of great assets out there, they're spread across many places and
Deborah Carbo: Things that we that and I and our team have heard over and over again. It is really hard to figure out how to kind of on board and raise maker. And so, whether it be you or people who are refreshing their skill. The new areas on the platform.
Deborah Carbo: So if you advance
Yvette LaMar: Monday.
Deborah Carbo: Through
Deborah Carbo: Friday. So what we've outlined on the next. Well, the goal is that we have here is we've included, what are the
Deborah Carbo: objectives and goals, who's currently talking about this in the background, right, in addition to all of you who are already talking about it in terms of Kobo and many other aspects of
Deborah Carbo: Enabling application development around the mainframe. And then, you know, what do we do with the idea. And is this an agreeable idea to this this room and looking for some feedback and advice.
Deborah Carbo: So aligning best of breed foundational education.
Deborah Carbo: I know I have
Deborah Carbo: Assets at Broadcom I'm willing to contribute that you have assets right from IBM. There are many, many others who leverage education assets have created education assets.
Deborah Carbo: What we simply want to do is create an environment right where we have shared ownership and we can provide
Deborah Carbo: Kind of a foundational learning roadmap for job role but support the mainframe so that business leaders managers hiring managers, they have access to that foundational material and it's vendor agnostic.
Deborah Carbo: Right, it's not IBM doing it is not Broadcom doing it. It's not the MC doing it it's it's a collaboration events.
Deborah Carbo: That essentially get to a certain level right of capability and certainly wouldn't put any
Deborah Carbo: Barriers on it, right, it can over time can become something quite incredible in one of the other things. So
Yvette LaMar: Just wanted to mention, real quickly was, you know, by offering it through the open
Yvette LaMar: mainframe project were able to get that that broad reach
Len Santalucia: That that was talking about.
Yvette LaMar: The scalability, because it's not just one company or us working in silos is being able to get all the contributions.
Yvette LaMar: And then it's also the quality and and and diversity of the material. I think in you put a
Yvette LaMar: Great. She said that, you know, not everybody learns the same way. So if we can bring this material in from around the globe.
Yvette LaMar: That has different ways of teaching a subject.
Yvette LaMar: Will have far more better quality.
Yvette LaMar: Take the next page.
Yvette LaMar: Yes.
Deborah Carbo: And so one of the things we thought about with regard to what is it, how does it relate to the opening credits project, what else is there duplication.
Deborah Carbo: Is supportive of the work that's going on right though he is to enable skills in various ways right to have an open mainframe and encourage and motivate collaboration around
Deborah Carbo: The coding application applications and the work that you're doing here, it's not actually code right it's it's
Deborah Carbo: It's a different sort of projects more we're pulling together education assets, but we are creating something right and interconnectivity
Deborah Carbo: That could be accessed by either companies or even faculty in university right and
Deborah Carbo: Bob when we spoke, you talked about how difficult it is to get faculty right so Cameron and Bob right they're all trying to get their peers in university to learn the mainframe and recognize its value. And we believe that we can essentially also create this access for potential curriculum.
Deborah Carbo: Our focus is primarily on, you know, business leaders and companies that they can enable the future of the mainframe. Right. And I believe we're all we're all in likely agreements that education and enablement support this platform.
Deborah Carbo: For decades to come.
Deborah Carbo: Is the most critical thing. One of the most critical things that we need to focus on. So I'll pause there and see if there's any feedback considering time
Deborah Carbo: Nobody likes it.
Yvette LaMar: Everybody likes it.
John Mertic: Sure. Everyone is
John Mertic: Here.
Bob Dahlberg: You know, we've been at VCU. We've been talking to, like, Bank of America and capital one and dominion.
Bob Dahlberg: And the Federal Reserve Federal Reserve and dominion.
Bob Dahlberg: Have don't know what to do with their current
Bob Dahlberg: mainframes and the feedback we're getting from these companies is is that they need. Students educated, not in particular areas, you know, kind of just Linux or Windows, but they want someone with a classical education. Now I got my education at NIU Northern Illinois University, which was
Deborah Carbo: All mainframe.
Bob Dahlberg: But they indicated that they needed students with mainframe education because it gives them a well rounded
Bob Dahlberg: idea what's going on. But they also don't have people in house who can strategically, think about what mainframes role in the enterprise is
Bob Dahlberg: And they're looking for universities to provide that. But the universities are woefully
Bob Dahlberg: Inadequate for doing that because there's not a lot of
Bob Dahlberg: Professors in universities that
Bob Dahlberg: That are able to do that.
Bob Dahlberg: So I really needed
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, I agree. I think I was going to ask a question, because I think the educational pieces is critical.
Matt Hogstrom: One looming problem. And since Meredith's on the call. Maybe she's got a suggestion here but
Matt Hogstrom: The experience that I've had with Zoe and other projects that are related to the mainframe.
Deborah Carbo: anybody that's interested can't get access to a system that they have sufficient authority on to be
Matt Hogstrom: A systems programmer to
Matt Hogstrom: Explore, a lot of the deep bowels of the system to understand it to do IO deaths and things of that nature. So is this intended to be
Matt Hogstrom: Just kind of a classical education, in theory, or is there an applied.
Matt Hogstrom: Set of activities.
Deborah Carbo: Where people could get access to systems and
Matt Hogstrom: Really kind of tie that theoretical knowledge to an applied.
Bob Dahlberg: solidification of that company has to have some applied application. Otherwise, because that's the way students learned today that you know we just did a survey of our curriculum.
Bob Dahlberg: At the end of this semester and the students go. They don't want to test they want they want projects. They want to be able to get hands on, because that reinforces what they learn and series.
Yvette LaMar: I agree.
Deborah Carbo: I agree with that assessment completely. I don't think we're there yet with this project proposal, I think it's a critical aspect of
Deborah Carbo: Training and truly embodying you know the capabilities were talking about learning roadmaps and paths that mentorship and the and the whole function of mentorship.
Deborah Carbo: Have to also connect into some sort of lab types of services that wasn't even on our radar as far as a puzzle. I mean a bad, but what are your yeah I think we talked
Yvette LaMar: A little bit about it. We were looking at system requirements and that checklist that we had and I think we had that read because we really needed to understand where are we going to need, first of all, where we were, where we going to put the content. And then also, do we need to have
Yvette LaMar: That that
Yvette LaMar: Place where they can have access to be a hands on experience.
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah I know when I was working on that.
John Mertic: So I know we're right at the top of the hour here.
John Mertic: We do have the tack here that is we have a quorum for vote now I do recognize. We're requesting this potentially right at the hour just attack one to proceed to vote would they like to conduct a vote over on the GitHub issue, what would be
Deborah Carbo: Preferred from the tech voting members.
John Mertic: Or do they want to punch it till next time and consider it, then that's also an option.
Bob Dahlberg: Well, I think it's something that needs to be done. And as long as we've got cobalt in there. I think the coal ball would be a nice fit into this more overall reaching
Bob Dahlberg: Project
Bob Dahlberg: So I would propose that we vote on it today. And, you know, kind of, you know,
Bob Dahlberg: Get it out of the back room and put it up for a product here. All right.
John Mertic: Bob, I'll take that as emotion.
John Mertic: Do right here, they're voting member to second that
Enyu Wang: Also good Amy.
John Mertic: Thank you. All in favor of the voting members, I
I
John Mertic: Think that was everybody
John Mertic: Any a poser abstain.
John Mertic: All right. Congratulations. You are no MP project I'm working toward helping work with you in the background on next steps.
Yvette LaMar: Thank you all very much.
Awesome.
John Mertic: All right. Um,
John Mertic: I apologize for blowing through this agenda like this is great.
John Mertic: Conversation. Um, this is definitely something we'll probably have to work with somebody on figuring out how to make put less stuff in the meeting, but this is all good. Stay safe, everyone, and we'll talk next time.
Bob Dahlberg: Thanks, everyone.
Cheers